23 months ago when I started my business
breaking B2B, I was sending out
thousands of cold emails to land
clients. And from all that work and
effort, I gained only one recurring
client. And the worst part was after a
few months, the domains burnt out,
messages stopped getting delivered, and
we had to shut the whole channel down.
Fast forward to today and breaking B2B's
at 170K in monthly recurring revenue,
fully inbound. And I'm seeing the exact
same shift with many SAS companies that
we're partnering with. So, in this
video, I'll break down why cold outreach
is becoming less and less effective for
B2B and SAS companies, and I'll share
what's actually working today to drive a
steady stream of qualified sales leads.
Let's get into it. So, first off, let's
talk about why cold outreach is getting
harder and harder to make a successful
and profitable strategy. But hold on a
second before every cold outreach guru
starts attacking me for saying cold
outreach is dead. That's not what I'm
saying. But there are some serious flaws
with the classic cold calling, cold
email, predictable revenue playbook,
especially for B2B and SAS companies.
And that's why many are struggling to
see consistent results for inbounds and
revenue. And according to Instantly's
Cold email report for 2026, the average
cold email reply rate is just 3.43%.
So some of the flaws I've seen from
running cold email myself and through
other folks that I know is it's super
easy to burn through your total
addressable market without the right
strategy. It's pretty easy, as I did
myself, to burn domains and end up in
the dreaded spam folder. Plus, what I
found is a lot of the responses are
fairly low quality, and it will take a
lot of work from yourself or the sales
team to eventually turn those positive
responses into meetings. And then get
those meetings eventually into a deal.
Essentially, you're panning for gold as
a very small amount of those positive
replies will then eventually agree to a
meeting. A small amount of those will
then turn into a demo or presentation
call. And then an even smaller amount of
those will eventually turn into closed
one business. And because you're
reaching out to folks cold, it's exactly
that. You haven't built up the trust
beforehand. They don't know who you are.
They may not have a clue who your
company is. And many companies are still
getting cold email wrong as they don't
invest in the right infrastructure from
the software to delivery to domains and
much much more. they don't spend the
right time on their messaging to make
sure it resonates with dream clients
problems, goals, and jobs to be done.
Plus, doubling down on the trust factor,
especially in 2026 and beyond. If folks
are hearing cold from you, they're super
skeptical. If they've never heard of
yourself, your brand, you've not got
that trust, you've not got that
reputation, especially when you're
reaching out to execs for the first
time. They're super skeptical. And
hence, it's getting more and more
difficult to get those positive
responses. And I can speak from
experience. When we fired up breaking
B2B nearly two years ago, I was doing
exactly this. We grabbed a list of data
for series A, series B funded companies
in the software and SAS space. We were
targeting marketing leaders like VP of
marketing, CMOs, director of demand
generation and similar. We built out
painfully short messaging that was
backed by research with problems that
these marketers were actually facing
around organic search competitors
outranking them, not driving a steady
flow of demos, leads, and revenue
through SEO and seeing if they were open
to a quick Loom video with ideas. And
even from the positive responses I did
get for each one, I was manually
creating a Loom video, going through
their website, reviewing their SEO
strategy, giving them actionable tips,
spending 20 to 30 minutes or sometimes
even more to craft a tailored video for
each one. And many times I wouldn't even
get a response to the Loom video that I
painstakingly created. And from all
those months of work, we only ended up
signing one recurring client. And after
some time, the domains burnt out. So, we
shut the channel down. And the
fundamental issues at play here are
you're usually reaching out to execs
that many times will have no idea who
you are or who your company is. You're
interrupting them. So quite often times
you'll be on the back foot from the get-
go. And the moment your system
encounters a flaw or an issue, leads
completely shut down. So what are we
seeing smart SAS marketing teams do
instead? Well, many of them are starting
to take AI search, SEO, and organic
evergreen content seriously. And here's
why. First and foremost, it compounds
and it builds on itself over time. Just
think about when you lasted a search on
YouTube. You'll often see video results
that are weeks, months, or even years
old. SEO can work in exactly the same
way. Your website pages, articles,
content, and more essentially act as
lines in the water and they're driving
visibility, brand mind share, and
inbound leads and pipeline, not just in
the short and medium term, but for
months and for years to come. And with
the right strategy, each page you
publish is essentially an asset that you
own. Think of it as building a moat
around a castle. The castle is your
website, and the moat is the net new
content that you're publishing day by
day, week by week, and month by month.
And eventually, you've got a kingdom of
these pages working 24/7 around the
clock as your very best sales rep that's
not sleeping, that's constantly gaining
you visibility, mind share, and driving
inbound opportunities from your dream
clients. And best of all, unlike paid
ads, you're not having to pay for each
and every click. And according to a
recent Dream Data report, average cost
per click for B2B companies with Google
Ads was $5.34.
And it's super unlikely that cost per
click is going to go down. most likely
it's only going to go up and up. And the
thing to remember here, most of the time
with the right SEO strategy, you're
building assets that can compound
opposed to paid media where you're
effectively renting someone's attention.
And of course, the moment you pause your
ads or switch off the campaign, your
sales pipeline dries up, unlike organic.
Now, with the right AI search and SEO
strategy, you can attract inmarket dream
clients that are searching directly for
your software or service. Now, maybe
they're comparing vendors. Perhaps
they're frustrated and looking to move
away from their incumbent vendor. Maybe
because the pricing went too high, poor
customer support, maybe lack of features
or something else. Or perhaps attract
those prospects that have a very crisp
and specific problem that your product
or service solves perfectly. This is all
about understanding exactly what your
target clients search on Google organic
search or AI searches when they're ready
to speak to your sales, grab a free
trial, or grab a demo. those money
keywords or prompts. Not only that, but
with the right SEO and AO strategy,
you're going to start showing up in AI
searches across tools like Google AI
overviews, Chat GBT, Perplexity, Grock,
and many more. More and more of your
dream clients are going to use AI search
from initial research, right through to
evaluating vendors of choice. But the
good thing is with the right bottom
funnel SEO strategy on your website,
your content, the technical and off your
website, getting brand mentions, earning
back links, getting your company
mentioned on external niche relevant
sites, forums, and more. Your company
can start to get consistent mentions in
AI results, which many folks are calling
AEO. And this is something we actively
work on for many of our B2B and SAS
clients, ensuring that their website
content pages and technical all have the
best chance to be brought up in AI
search results as well as other spots
across the web where we can get those
allimportant brand and category
mentions. So, when dream clients are
going to AI search tools and either
doing research for crisp and specific
problems you solve or they're looking to
switch or compare vendors or looking for
the software or solution that you
provide, your brand is consistently
mentioned and cited. And the thing to
remember is with the right approach,
your content can get ranked on both
Google and help you get visibility
across AI searches, positioning you well
for the future. And the other factor at
play here is many folks are going to
place more trust in organic results
opposed to paid for or sponsored
listings. So when your brand's being
recommended or showing top of both AI
searches and Google organic results,
you're building that trust and
credibility. And when you compare all of
this to what cold email can do for your
company today, it doesn't really feel
close. Now, unfortunately, many SAS and
B2B companies try SEO, but it doesn't
end up working out for them. And then
they'll say things like, "So's dead. It
doesn't work." Or, "It takes 12 to 18
months minimum to see results." When
really, with the right strategy, you can
drive pipeline and revenue as quick as
90 days we've seen across many SAS
clients. The problem here isn't SEO or
AEO. It's the strategy they're
following. Here's what I've seen a few
times. leadership might constantly see
competitors ranking above them in Google
organic search and AI search results or
even worse perhaps the company's
completely invisible on AI search and
all their competitors are being
mentioned consistently when folks are
searching for their solution comparing
vendors or looking to solve problems and
your company is just nowhere to be seen
in AI searches and as a result they tell
their marketing team it's top urgent we
need to do SEO and AO right away problem
is the marketing team probably have a
hundred things on in there, play it
across paid search, events, maybe
internal coms, other forms of marketing
and much, much more. So for them, SEO
and AI search is just one piece of the
massive puzzle that they need to work
on. And maybe they do a little bit of
research on some hightraffic keywords
with low difficulty. Maybe then they
pump out a couple articles with chat
GPT's help, add them on the website,
install a plug-in on their website like
Yoast, and then get back to their other
99 tasks. And really, it isn't actually
the marketing team's fault cuz they got
told to quote unquote do SEO and they've
got a ton of other channels and tasks
that they need to juggle. And sadly, SEO
and AI search just becomes a checkbox
activity and drives no real impact
pipeline or revenue. And another big
mistake that I see a lot of times is
folks fall into the traffic trap. What I
mean by this is founders or marketers
will go to an SEO tool perhaps HF
Semrush or another one and maybe look at
keywords that are driving tons of
traffic getting great visibility on AI
search but they're super informational.
So it might be something like what is a
CRM or the best way to build a website
or how to build a sales process. The
problem is they're super topfunnel.
They're super informational searches. So
they're super unlikely to attract
someone that's in buying mode and ready
to speak to sales, grab a demo or grab a
trial or sign up to your product. And
what's worse is those
superformationalbased searches are being
eaten up by Google AI overviews, giving
you an instant result to your question
and being instantly answered in tools
like chat GBT. So instead, you want to
focus on smart bottomfunnel SEO and AO.
This means taking a commercial focus and
working out what do your dream clients
search when they're in market looking to
speak to sales, compare vendors, or
looking to solve a crisp and expensive
problem right now. And there's a bunch
of strategies that you can follow to do
exactly this. And one out of the many
different strategies that we follow and
this is probably my absolute favorite is
competitor content. The reason being
this content can rank super fast in both
Google organic search AI overviews and
AI tools like chat GBT. Many times
clients see pipeline as quick as 90
days. So as an example for our proposal
software client Proposify, we might
build competitor alternatives pages,
competitor pricing pages, versus pages
and many many more. So one real example
might be get accept alternatives or
quiller alternatives. And these type of
pages tend to be listical articles. For
example, we review the top 10 quiller
alternatives of 2026. And normally these
are structured with a brief
introduction, why folks should trust
you, and we get straight into the list.
We position ourselves as number one, but
instead of shouting about how great and
how awesome we are, we back it by
customer research. So we show the
product in action, nice visuals, gifts
of that aha moment and beyond. We talk
about why folks choose us, pricing,
where we're a great fit, where we're not
a great fit. Maybe we layer in some
social proof, so why customers moved
over to us from Quiller or another
competitor and their experience working
with us. A nice call to action to grab a
trial or grab a demo. And then a fair
comparison of all the other vendor
options. And the beauty of this is it
attracts folks that in market perhaps
looking to move away from their current
supplier or software perhaps because
they're too expensive. Maybe they lack
the customer support or maybe something
else or perhaps they're evaluating two,
three, four vendors, whatever it may be.
Or perhaps they're doing that final bit
of research before they're ready to push
the button, grab a demo, grab a sales
call, or maybe even sign the dotted
line. And not only that, often times
this type of competitor content is very
low difficulty, so it can rank in Google
organic search, AI overviews, AI tools
like chat GBT super fast. In fact, we've
seen these type of alternative pricing
versus pages and beyond rank as quick as
days and weeks from publishing. So, it's
a solid play for SAS companies,
especially if you know the vendors you
often get stacked up against. And even
better if you know the vendors that
folks often move away from and the
reasons they do so backed by customer
research, sales, and beyond. And like I
say, this is just one of many smart
plays that you can run to drive pipeline
through SEO and AI search. Now, if you
want help building a revenue focused SEO
and AO strategy for your SAS business,
head over to breakingb2b.com to grab a
call with myself or hit the link in the
description below. We've done this for
dozens of B2B and SAS companies at this
stage and on that call, we can talk
through exactly where you're at and see
if we can start driving pipeline and
revenue as quick as 90 days through SEO
and AI search for your business. So
again, head over to breaking.com or hit
the link in the description below. Or if
you're not ready, why not grab my 90
days to revenue video course and
playbook completely free. Head over to
breakingb2b.com and hit the newsletter
tab to unlock it instantly. Or you can
check out the breaking B2B podcast for
interviews with SAS marketing leaders
each and every week. And with that, I'll
catch you on the next one. Cheers.